Sadly, this lion, if left untreated, would literally die.  And it's the first of a thousand animals we're going to be saving in this video.  Here's how.  We'll be using a sniper to vaccinate giraffes from a helicopter.  We ain't leaving until all the giraffes are vaccinated!  Rescuing lions from a zoo that was literally bombed.  Be free!  Relocating massive rhinos before they fight each other to death.  Gonna add a lot of years to this rhino's life.  And so many more unbelievable rescues.  Starting with performing life-saving surgery on this lion.  This is Dr. Alex. What are we about to do?  This lion has a tooth infection that could literally kill it.  So we're going to perform a root canal to save this lion's life.  We're giving it life-saving surgery to remove the infection in its teeth.  Can you just hold that lip like that for us?  Oh my gosh! He is literally pulling gunk out of its teeth.  And this gunk, if untreated, would somehow end up in the lion's heart valves?  That's right.  What would happen if she woke up?  She'd bite my finger off.  Oh. And my finger.  That looks really good. Procedure's done.  Let's release her.  Now the lion is here.  She's happy and healthy.  But we still have 999 animals left to save.  Our next mission is to save some rhinos.  We have to search this massive reservation in order to tranquilize and relocate them.  While we're driving around looking for rhinos, Chandler is actually in the sky.  I'm literally flying around in a helicopter in search of these rhinos that we are trying to rescue.  Typically, the stronger rhinos would just scare away the weaker ones.  But since the reservation is surrounded by anti-poaching fences,  the weaker rhinos have nowhere to go, so they end up killing each other.  Yeah, exactly.  This is why we're going to put them to sleep and then transport them to a plot of land that can be their own territory,  where they're not getting bullied out of all the food and water and they can actually grow big and strong.  Jimmy, come in! We found the rhinos!  We found the rhinos!  First things first, we're putting on the anti-poaching collar. Here's what it does.  This collar tracks the rhinos' speed and its proximity to nearby wildlife.  If the rhino suddenly starts running in an open area with no other animals around,  we'll know likely that poachers are trying to kill it.  We're going all out to make sure these rhinos live long lives, because...  there's not many left on the planet.  Yeah, well, look, thanks a lot. That's all we can say.  So this is a microchip, which we're inserting in a tiny hole in his horn, and then...  We're sealing it with glue.  So now, if a poacher does kill this rhino illegally, we'll be able to trace its horns to the black market and, you know, help catch them.  Let's get it to its own space so the other big rhinos here don't kill it.  I know this all seems kind of weird, but this is...  gonna add a lot of years to this rhino's life.  Let's get him in. It's for your own good. Go inside.  We're now in the safe area for the rhino, where he's not gonna get bullied and slowly killed.  Alright. I say we name him Hippo.  Hippo? He's a rhino.  Well, yeah, but his name's Hippo.  I'm calling him Hippo the Rhino.  Alright.  Alright, Hippo the Rhino, enjoy your life. We still have hundreds more animals to save.  And after my friends saved the other two smaller rhinos on the safari,  we set our sights on something a little taller.  Giraffes.  By shooting them with vaccines.  Unlike when we tranquilized the rhinos, these high-powered air rifles actually deliver a massive dart filled with life-saving medicine.  Enjoy your vaccines!  Have a great day.  Why are they running? We're trying to save their lives.  Throughout this video, we're gonna be saving over a thousand animals.  I guess no one told the giraffes because they were making it kind of difficult.  Sir, I'm trying to vaccinate you!  It's good for you, I promise!  Come get a vaccine!  Bro, it's so far away.  We need to elevate our tactics.  Giraffes' territory is so large.  This is the easiest way to get them the medication that they need.  If a giraffe gets one of...  What's its odds of dying?  Save the giraffe! Save it!  Even though I now had air superiority...  Enjoy your better!  I brought in extra help to save as many animals as possible.  We're not killing them, we're saving their lives.  By the time we left, we vaccinated a total of 70 giraffes.  Bringing us to 74 animals saved so far.  We even got to see our hard work from earlier pay off.  Yes, right now we dropped off.  Oh, it is!  We're so happy!  Bro, who would have thought giving giraffes a vaccine would be so fun?  But we still had a lot more animals to save.  So, we're traveling from South Africa all the way up to Ukraine.  Where years of war have destroyed the zoos.  Leaving rescued lions to survive in makeshift shelters.  And because they're still threatened by the ongoing war...  We're going to fly them out of there.  Which is why we have this giant cargo plane.  Just to transport these three lions out of Ukraine.  They stripped this plane. Literally there are no seats.  These three lions each get first class tickets.  And with the help of wildlife conservationist Anthony Penniston...  We're flying them over 7,000 miles to South Africa...  To his animal sanctuary Lion Watch.  Where these lions will have over 14 acres of open land to roam free.  And we're going to take a look at the lion's tiger right there.  Actually Madge, that's a lion.  Oh, okay.  Go take it.  And after Anthony released the first lion...  It was up to Madge to help release the other two.  What?  I got to do that too.  Yeah.  I'm ready.  Let's do it.  Let's go.  She's gone.  The lions are now free from the dangers of war...  And able to run across their native African lands.  And to save exotic animals is important.  It wouldn't be a saving animals video if we didn't save 100 dogs.  Many dog shelters are overcrowded.  And if a dog goes too long without finding a home...  They're killed to make room for new dogs.  Every five minutes one dog in an animal shelter like this is killed.  So we need to get these 100 dogs adopted right now.  How's it going?  Good. You?  Oh, hey. Nice to meet you.  Are you excited to get a dog?  What kind of dog are you guys looking for?  We're looking for a small little one.  Oh, a little small one?  I can't get one today.  What do we think about adopting her?  Yes.  Are you going to play with that dog every day?  Yeah.  And give it tons of love?  Mm-hmm.  Shake on it.  All right.  One down.  99 dogs to go.  And you may not know this, but taking care of a dog's health actually costs a bunch  of money.  And some people, unfortunately, can't afford it.  We love him.  Hi.  Which is why I wanted to share the good news.  And like all the other dogs here, all the medical bills are covered.  And he's free.  We're covering all the adoption fees.  Oh, wow.  Yeah.  So you guys can take him home for $0.  Oh, my goodness.  Thank you.  Thank you.  No problem.  It was incredible to see so many dogs find their forever homes.  How can you say no to those puppy dog guys?  Wow.  How long have you been looking for a dog?  Two to three months now.  She's perfect.  Aw.  She really is, though.  Do you think you're going to take her home?  Yeah.  That's what we like to hear.  Ron's been adopted.  You guys going to take good care of him?  Yeah.  Wonderful.  One or more dogs were getting saved.  But since puppies have a higher rate of adoption, older dogs are less likely to survive.  Like Blue, this dog that's 10 years old, still waiting to find his perfect human match.  We're looking for something a little older just because we're a little low energy.  How about Blue?  What do you think?  I think he's great.  He just looks so gentle.  What a cutie.  He's going to be so happy with you guys.  Thank you so much.  But we weren't done yet.  As the day went on, we watched dog after dog get adopted into a loving home.  Are we ready to adopt?  Yes, I am.  And before we knew it, we saved 100 dogs, all going to families devoted to giving them  the best life possible.  Next up, we're saving exotic miniature horses because these tiny horses were being sold  at an auction to be killed for food.  And I'm sorry, but I'm not just going to stand by and let these horses get slaughtered.  So I bought them all.  And we're going to find all of these horses a home.  Oops, excuse me.  The horsies are over here.  Oh, wait, she seems to want this one.  You guys have other horses?  I have a full-sized one at home.  So the horse you're adopting is for her?  Oh, yeah.  Oh, really?  So she can grow up riding a horse?  Oh.  Oh.  Oh.  Wait, how do you not get that one?  You want the horses to think it's their decision that they're getting in the trailer.  Let me try something.  I'll give you guys 10 grand if you get in the trailer.  Oh.  Oh, they did it.  It works.  You guys came here wanting one, and now you're leaving with two?  I think minis are like potato chips.  You can't have enough?  Technically, I'm not supposed to be bringing another one home, but the answer was not no.  You want a third one, then?  Load up the whole trailer.  Two weeks ago, they were going to be slaughtered, and now they're getting loving homes, and  you guys are going to spoil them, right?  Oh, heck, yeah.  Oh, see, this is awesome.  That's the point of this video.  And after adopting out our last three horses.  What a surprise.  Oh, my gosh.  Oh, my gosh.  Oh, my gosh.  Oh, my gosh.  Oh, my gosh.  Oh, my gosh.  Oh, my gosh.  Oh, my gosh.  Oh, my gosh.  Oh, my gosh.  Oh, my gosh.  Oh, my gosh.  Sweet little horse.  We also saved four donkeys who are all getting to stay together.  And now we're off to help one of the biggest birds on the planet.  Now we're at Maya's Animal Sanctuary, which I actually think is pretty fascinating because  she helps fund it through a 24-7 Twitch livestream where you can donate to give animals treats  and other cool little things.  And the money donated on this livestream gives animals treats and helps fund this massive  animal sanctuary, which is filled with tons of exotic animals that Maya has been rehabilitating  for her and her dog.  She's been doing this her entire life.  All right.  So Marm's that enclosure.  That's Momo up there.  Momo.  Momo's so cute.  He does really like screens.  If you have a phone, you want to show him something?  Oh, really?  Not only do you like her videos, but apparently so do monkeys.  It's a dominance thing.  This is Winnie the Moo.  To help raise money for this sanctuary, which is owned by a nonprofit, Winnie the Moo here  is on a 24-7 livestream.  And if you donate money like I just did, her feeder gives her treats and then she goes  and eat them.  This is a really cool, innovative way that...  She's been able to fund this sanctuary and keep expanding it.  This is awesome.  She loves that feeder.  Now the real reason why we're here, Stompy the Emu.  How's it going?  How you doing, Stompy?  Stompy lives here with our horses and our cow and our donkey.  Clearly, as you can tell, Stompy basically believes he's a horse.  Which is bad because Stompy could literally get stomped on.  Which is why me and Lowe's are partnering with Maya to build an Emu sanctuary.  It's not there yet.  But after this montage, it will be.  A massive shout out to Lowe's for helping make this project possible.  Lowe's has been on the ground helping since the moment floods caused damage to the area.  And now the sanctuary will be part of Lowe's commitment to delivering 10 million square  feet of impact this year.  How do we continue helping Stompy?  We gotta get this fence up here.  I have never built a fence before.  All right, rolling out the fence.  Maya, how are you cutting it so easily?  Maya, you make me look weak.  Whenever your community is in need, Lowe's is there to help you.  Even if it's for things like building a fence for Stompy.  All right, we're gonna plant this plant.  Dig a hole right there.  Yes, ma'am.  All you want to do is make an oblong shake.  Question.  What's an oblong?  Like a hot dog.  Perfect.  I got it.  Jagged.  Doesn't have to be perfect.  Then gently stick all three.  And then we'll put in here.  And if you want to learn more about how Lowe's is helping communities like yours,  just click the link in the description or go to this website right here, right now.  Now we need to see what Stompy thinks of his new home  and introduce him to his new girlfriend.  You're free.  What do you think of your new home, Stompy?  I heard you like trees.  So we are going to plant some trees.  We opted for an enclosure with a lot of trees.  Hi.  What do you think of it?  I'll take that as he loves it.  Not only did we build you a home where a horse won't accidentally kill you,  but we also got you a friend.  We made this bad boy big enough for two emus.  Can I name it?  Yeah.  Wait, why'd you say it like that?  Yeah, no, yeah, I trust you.  We should name this emu Nolan's mom.  Yeah.  Really?  Yeah.  All right, let's let her out.  What'd you think of my name?  What does that even mean?  It means her name's Nolan's mom.  Hi, Nolan's mom.  Hi, she's pretty.  Yeah.  And to wrap things up, we are at the wolf sanctuary  that Maya wants to build.  Take off your blindfold.  And to help bring the wolf sanctuary to life,  we wanted to give you a $50,000 donation to help bring it together.  Earlier this year, Maya's animal sanctuary  faced extensive damage due to the Texas floods.  And it really set them back.  But thanks to Lowe's, Maya now has $50,000  to kickstart this wolf sanctuary.  That is crazy.  Thank you so much.  Up next, we're saving two sea lions.  Starting with Rocky, who unfortunately  has a bullet in his head.  This video is about saving animals.  And I want to let you know that we want to cover the expenses  of taking care of Rocky.  Thank you so much.  It will take some time for him to recover from surgery.  However, Gertrude, our other sea lion,  is ready to be released.  She previously suffered from being brutally entangled  in a net and almost died.  Let's go release Gertrude.  Ready?  Ready.  All right.  Three, two, one.  She's wasting no time.  Look at this.  Did she hear that?  There's the ocean.  Look at that.  There she goes.  Oh, there she is.  Oh, man.  All right.  Let's go.  Oh, there she goes.  Let's go.  Yeah, man.  Yes.  Yes.  Woo!  Woo!  With over 800 animals left to save,  it's time to rapid fire.  Over in the Amazon rainforest, we worked  with Migo Lodge and Sanctuary to release over 200 animals back  into the wild.  What we have here is a silky ant eater.  It's one of the rarest species of animals  that we can find here.  Oh, my god.  It's so cute and small.  Go on, little guy.  Bye.  These animals would have been killed  if we didn't have sanctuaries like Minga to rehabilitate.  So now we're bringing this tortoise over here  into its natural habitat.  And set them free.  But we weren't done yet, because back in the US,  we saved hundreds more animals, like here at Wildlife Critters  Circle of Life, where we funded 47 injured and abandoned  animals, including this black wolf named Draco.  He was shot in Louisiana.  And when Draco came in, he couldn't  stand.  Now, as you see, he's running around and super happy.  20 foxes were going to be slaughtered and turned  into fur coats.  But instead, we stepped in and saved every single one of them.  You get toys and treats, and you get to walk around.  Here at this gigantic bird sanctuary,  we saved 70 native birds, like this screech owl  that was hit by a car and is now getting  help for his injured eyes.  We're actually unsure if his full vision's  going to come back in that one eye.  Luckily for owls, they can survive in the wild with just  one eye.  We also treated 42 injured or orphaned white-tailed deer.  Come on, deer.  This one is healthy enough to walk and graze freely again.  At this rescue in Georgia, we saved 85 animals.  This Mississippi kite has healed enough to fly again.  And at this turtle rescue in New York,  we saved 48 different turtles.  This one's finally healthy enough to return  to his natural habitat, the skate park.  Back at Wildlife Critters Circle of Life,  this kangaroo named Bodhi lost his mother.  So he's back.  So he needs a few things that simulate having a mother.  I have special nipples that resembles the mom the best  we can.  We make pouches so they feel secure,  and they still get the momentum of the mom moving.  And also over at Waldo on End, where a duck named Marjorie  lost her beak to a snapping turtle.  So we took her into our vet.  Dr. Chester had a prosthetic beak put on,  because without it, she cannot eat.  We also paid for the 46 other birds  that are getting help here.  All of these specialized medical treatments,  and rehabilitation techniques, cost quite a bit of money.  That's why we helped four other organizations  across the country pay for the cost of 212 more animals  that needed our help.  Looking back on all of these incredible animals,  we just want to say thank you to you, the viewers,  for giving us a platform to make a difference.  We saved 1,000 animals' lives.  But the work isn't done yet.  If you'd like to help us save the next 1,000 or even more,  please visit this website.  On screen, let's work together to keep these animals safe  and in the wild.