📝 Final Transcript: So good morning friends, we are going to start our discussion on file systems from today.  Two of your major assignments are on file system and two of the course projects are on file system.  We have already discussed some things about file system.  For example, we discussed the file system related system calls like open redirect loads.  Today we are going to see the kernel details which enable us to have a file system.  So before we understand file systems, I will give a broad overview today of what do we do with a file system as an end user on a Linux system.  We do many activities like we format, we mount, we access files and then also do some other interesting things like  there are device files and there are link files and so on.  So some of it will be a reputation of what we have already studied.  But today I am going to address all the file system related issues in one place.  So let us begin with hardware, with hard disk, with drivers, controllers.  So this on the slide you will see on the left side a photograph of a hard disk.  And I am sure all of you have seen a hard disk before in your phone.  In the first year there was a practical course which aimed to introduce you to physical hardware.  So this hard disk is an open hard disk if you see it.  Normally you would not have seen a hard disk which has been opened from the back side.  Now in the diagram, in the photograph many things are labeled.  As of now we are not interested in knowing all of those mechanical details and electronic details  of the disk hardware.  But you can see on the right side there is an abstract diagram of the actual photograph  wherein it shows that there are, if you see there is a spindle in the middle which is like an axis.  The door is open, please come in.  I am in a class.  Can you come later at 12.30?  Yeah, come after 12.30 please.  Yeah, sorry students.  So in the middle you will see there is a spindle and that spindle is an axis.  This spindle is an axis.  It goes right through like this.  And again sorry I am not able to draw properly.  But that is a spindle and around the spindle there are lot of platters.  Like you can see this one, this is a splatter.  So there are many such platters on it.  And here is the assembly.  On which there are many magnetic heads.  Like this is a head, this is a head, this is a head.  And you will see basically this is the arm but the head is here.  You know this small thing here, the small thing here is the head.  So the head doesn't, the head stays and the disk will rotate around the spindle.  The head can move inside and outside.  So the head can move inside and outside.  And the disk rotates like this.  The disk rotates like this.  So on the disk the data is, on the disk this is a magnetic disk and it is divided into small small sections like this.  Where each section like this is called a sector.  And the size of a sector historically and even today typically it is 512 bytes.  So the head can read 512 bytes at a time and it can write 512 bytes at a time.  That is why the disk is said to be a block device.  That is why the disk is said to be a block device.  Where the block, physical block is a 512 byte chunk.  We can say that the disk is divided into sectors like this.  Or if you consider all sectors in a circle and all the circles which are below each other then that is what we call as a cylinder.  So there are many such terms we use but as far as programming is concerned around the disk  we can say that the disk is a block device that we can read one sector at a time.  Any questions on this physical diagram of the hard disk?  I will wait for few seconds.  Please mind it I am not looking at the chat.  I am presenting.  You need to speak.  Alright, let us go ahead.  The logical view of a disk and another term we use is partition which I will introduce in few minutes.  The logical view of a disk and another term we use is partition which I will introduce in few minutes.  The logical view of a disk and another term we use is partition which I will introduce in few minutes.  Does it look like A-B?  In a similar way, we will use a thought cloud for Alzheimer learning example.  We have seen it most commonly when we saw up to frustrated people,  which owner created anHub email id that if you send this test,  the viewer could automatically understand the idea.  It can then be sent back obviously if our pictures look like the one in the video.  And here are two cases where the sound is negative.  Here is the image we will show to you visiting anima,  it is an old phone.  There is a link to user Twitter account but it is not valid at this point.  Here is the video where the user uses high-frequency visual intelligence.  And this is the whether or not the room for the device toard channel network.  Now let us discuss a Is Italera error which we already discussed earlier.  loader typically resides on a disk. But for us the program works the logical view of a disk is a  sequence of blocks. Now let us come to the term disk controller and disk driver. Now the disk  controller is an electronic hardware circuit and it can handle instructions like I want to read  block number n or I want to write to the block number n but that is typically done using in and  out instructions. So once again to give you an idea this is a physical hardware okay on in which  somewhere in this assembly is a piece of hardware called disk controller. It is typically a  motherboard which can't be easily seen in this diagram but there is a motherboard and that is  the disk controller. So that is the boundary between the physical world and the electronic  world and the disk controller basically crosses that boundary.  But we as a we as kernel programmers or as let us say C programmers are often not very much willing  to spend time in knowing the smaller details of the hardware like exactly how to instruct the  hardware to do a particular thing. So what happens is companies which make disk obviously they make  the disk with the disk controller otherwise how will the disk work but the companies themselves  will make the disk controller. So what happens is that the companies which make the disk controller  most typically write a piece of C code on top of the disk controller okay and that C code will  typically give you functions like this wherein you can say read with a block number and giving it the  data in a buffer. So that is reading nth block into the buffer f or the other way around write  where you write from buffer into the nth block. So the job of a disk driver is to make you available  with the disk controller. Again these two functions which I have written are only demonstrated the actual function  could have maybe slightly different but the basic job that these functions do is this that you can  easily say I want to read from any block or I want to write to the nth block that is the disk driver.  Now we have already seen a disk driver when we studied the xv6 code in the boot main that is  the bootloader there was a function called read sector that was a disk driver it was reading the disk controller.  So this is a disk driver that was reading the disk controller and it was using polling because it is a IO function.  It is a function which does input output from the disk controller and it was using polling  to do that because it was looping and then reading but in the later xv6 kernel code there  is another driver and that driver is in the file id.c id is a type of a hard disk okay  there are many type of hard disks id is one of the old  old type of hard disks and the functions in this id.c are id read write so there is actually a single function to either read or write  and there are other functions like id start and there is a id interrupt which is the disk interrupt  handler now this device driver is a interrupt driven disk driver because if you remember during  the bootloader interrupts are disabled so it uses polling to do IO but the id.c uses interrupts.  and it's a interrupt driven disk driver so that is the disk driver code and this is c code and i encourage you to read id.c  to make sense of how a disk driver works but you will realize that essentially the disk  driver will give you the functionality that i mentioned that hey read block n or write block  n that is the functionality it gives you any questions now i am looking at the chat no questions  no question right i'll wait for the chat please.  I don't have any questions.  Well, I am not sure if i can hear the questions or not.  I am trying to see if I can hear the question so if I can hear the question or not I will just try to answer it.  for some more people to either respond or then I will go ahead after few seconds.  So why is there a single function for read and write?  Because in the argument you can mention whether it is read or write.  You can pass an argument saying read or write, isn't it?  I hope I made my point clear.  The only thing that changes in the read or write is the direction of transfer.  There are many other things to be told to the disk controller, they remain the same.  So why repeat the same code in two places?  That may be the logic.  So let us go ahead now.  Partitions, you have already studied partitions, you have done partitioning, you have installed  operating systems, you have even done dual booting, triple booting and so on.  So you are aware of partition.  So what I am saying is a repetition but for the sake of completeness in this lecture I  am repeating it.  So I will go very quickly over it.  If you are aware of partitioning, you are aware of the fact that you have already done  partitioning.  So, with respect to partitioning, you might see the switches Replucked.  two rectangular pieces inside your computer and one of them is 37 GB and  the other is 19 GB I am not sure why the numbers are like this this is a diagram  I took from the web and here now you will see that there are different what  they call as drives on Windows C Drive E Drive F Drive G Drive and this dot these  are what we call partitions okay and the other disc also is divided into three of  them on Windows you can give them labels like C colon E colon F colon now what are  these partitions they are logical divisions of the hard disk they are not  in a sense physical because you don't break your hard disk physically they are  logically created separations on the hard disk saying that I want to access  each of them as if it was an independent sequence of blocks so C colon will have  block number  and  and , E colon will again have block number zero to something here and F colon will again have block number zero to something here so that's the idea okay let's say you had some so you had some 40 GB hard disk then you can divide it into chunks of 10, 20, 10 or 15, 25 or whatever you want so that is the concept of partitioning now there is another concept here which I am going to skip we have already studied that primary partition  then I'll explain a more to follow  but that is required for us to fully  but now let us try to appreciate the problem we're  going to  solve.  File system appears to us you know in this form like so far as a programmer and we look at file  system.  We see it as an arrangement of files and folders you know more or less of three format the tree has  number of children and a retree  So the top level folder and we call it  root folder on Linux  the root directory here  on Windows it is called C colon or  D colon something and then  there are folders of folders and files  and on Windows you write a complete path name  like this with a backslash  so that I am sure you are aware of  so the problem you are  trying to solve is how do you  store this not only  the so what do you have to  store on the disk of course you have  to store this file you have to store  this file you have to store this file and  when we say this file it is the  data of the file it is the name of  the file the information that the file  belongs to this folder then  the information that this folder belongs  to this folder and the entire tree you have  to store and the  properties of the file and that all you have to  store on the disk and  that means you have to store it in a linear  array of blocks so  the problem you are really trying to solve  and today I am not discussing that problem  I am just mentioning it is how  do you store a n array tree  in a sequence of blocks  each is 500 that is  the problem of the kernel file system  which we will see in  later few lectures now I am  just continuing with the general introduction  to file systems  the logical view of file system in  the Windows namespace  the word namespace simply means  a collection of all names  is that  there is a separate tree of c  colon and there is a separate tree of d colon  so there is one tree per partition  so there is a forest  collection of trees is called forest  so c colon and d colon do not  seem to be directly connected to  each other they appear independently of  each other on Windows but on Linux  the logical view of a file system  is again a tree  it is not exactly a tree  we will come to that later but let us say  it is a tree and there is a root folder called c colon  slash and then there are folders and subfolders but it always remains a tree it never becomes a  forest because of the concept called mounting again this is the concept we have studied early  in the course you have done practicals using mounting so i am just repeating it again  what happens in the mounting let's say this is a tree on one partition and this is the tree  on another disk partition all right now as i said linux names which is the single tree  uh not a forest so that means in order for this partition to become accessible this tree has to  become a subtree of this tree all right so that is done using mounting so when i say a mounting  now in this diagram you look there's a folder called mydir and in this diagram the mydir  contains nothing  but it can contain other things in in practice so during mounting what we do is we connect the  subtree to a given folder and then that subtree appears as if it was a normal subtree rooted there  now let's say you want to access this file v dot cpp then the path name of this file is now  home slash guest slash mydir slash x slash v dot cpp and an open system  will work on the v dot cpp if you give this correct path name the open system call will work  now there is a command to do a mounting and you are all aware of the command to mount  so i am going to skip that just one more additional thing i want to mention that the  beauty of this mounting is that you can in fact mount across a network so you can make available  file system or a folder on one computer on another computer and that is the way to do it so now let's  have a look atンB  a  simple  speaking  so  we will  then for the following  aí  so  after  I  always  one  submit and then start by connecting and one other slide box to one confusion so thesey has only one translation option whatever has passed for visible home at the methods you must have carried that option if some喔 두�м on l дd is the following computer hit that option will sounds to get to use so let's say now by example if you want m the list to move to cut one landing at each other would not they must enter the set it as after which that that by their access side i applied on the Sudo mode  so that's the beauty of a remote file system like NMS there are many set  solutions for example CI FAS and so on in fact if you are aware we run a next  cloud server on the first server and your own folder on next cloud you can  mount it using the command on Linux so you can use normal terminal commands to  access your next level folder so that's the beauty of this whole architecture  that single interface to access variety of type of files questions on mounting  so I am going to give you a lab task in this week which you all should complete  in which you will deal with some Ubuntu virtual machine and remote mounting and  other commands related to file system  like creating partition so I'm going to list those commands anyway so some  commands to deal with the file system so we are going to we are going to do that  as a lab task okay let's proceed now you all know that there are files and there  are folders so let me do a demo now if I say LS okay so let me say this so if I  say this then you see there are files and folders if you do LS minus L then you  all know that you see detail listing in with this D the first character D means  the attendance in the directory even for feedback this D means it's a directory  but for this lab message dot txt the first character is hyphen that means it's  a file it's a normal file now I have also shown you other examples so for  example if you remember when I said  MKFD  for this then the first character for this file slash DMP new is a P because  it's a pipe it's a name by type so this is another type of file that you can  create on unix s similarly if you have done this so this is my SSD device file  and in in the case of this file there slash and we  have a since now we have some other files not like that one and I'm just  going to say the block device file and in in the case of this file which is  unvme zero what is used is it's not a separate file it is a block device file  so I will show you that this is a block device file so basically you can see  the block device on an unix system called x86 and it's kind of same way  you can see that it directly represents the file in the delineation  of x86 and nvme zero and a block device file but this is because of to with the  local device file so it's not a block device file it's just a file so you can  a block spatial device so the io that you can do with it will be block io that is you can read a  chunk of 512 or you can write a chunk of 512 same is the case with these these are my partitions on  this thing which is a particular hardware device so more on such device files okay there are some  very interesting spatial device files with a spatial behavior obviously these files the kernel  will do something special for them they are not handled by kernel internally like your normal  files so one such file is the dev null file slash dev slash null this file is a data sync that is  whatever you write to it gets discarded but the write succeeds so this is very useful to get read  of unwanted output and so on so for example oh for example i run ls and if i say ls dev null  the output has disappeared into the file  of course in this case the output was perhaps wanted one not an unwanted one  but many times uh let's say i want to run the yes command and it keeps showing this output on the  screen and it is annoying for me and even if i run it in the background the same thing keeps  happening so maybe i have this idea that i'll redirect it to dev null and then run it in  the background so now it keeps running so i have a yes process if i am only interested in the yes  process then i have a yes process it is running it has a pid now it is going to run the previous five  table and even this method keep running and the same of course if i run a etc in the background  it just keeps running and it just keeps running i have to slash the final j that means i need to 'm just 사용in the didity the reference it just keeps running the exact reference they will be  passing i will give a different command tag it just keeps running the fifty heading the  It has the PID, now I can do my experiments with the yes process and I do not see the  output on the screen also.  So the annoying thing is gone.  That is one use of dev null, it is a sink, it will eat up anything.  The other is dev0 which you have seen in the case of xv6, it is used to create the xv6.img.  So it is a source of zeros.  You keep reading from it, the read never gets over, it always returns zeros.  So that is the dev0 file.  Another interesting file is devrandom which you can open and read from it and you will  get some random data.  So that is another interesting thing.  Another is devurandom that is a random number, another way to get random data.  One more such file is devfull to which you can write but the write always fails.  You can check whether your application can deal with this situation.  You can always use devfull.  One of the course projects partly involves creating such files in xv6 that we create  many such device files and the ability to support them.  So this is an easy job actually, it is not a very difficult job to implement most of  them because the code, the structure is already there in xv6.  You simply need to add extra files.  So this is a part of another course project.  Now let us come to the concept of formatting.  First of all let us understand what is formatting.  We have surely used this term many times.  So let me first explain the problem to you.  The problem is this, you have a pre-structured file system, slash, tmp, folder a, folder  b and then more things like.  You know here.  You want to have the ability to create such file folder structure entirely but we need  to store it on a disk that through the device driver, through the device driver appears  to us as a sequence of blocks.  That is the problem we are trying to solve in a file system, in the kernel.  So what does the kernel have?  The kernel has a device driver.  The device driver will give you way to read block and write block.  But then using that interface now we have to have the ability to store this entirely.  So all files, all their data, all their permissions and folders and which folder has which files,  all that we need to store on this.  So that is the problem.  So we will solve that problem but to begin with now, when you start create, when you  start using this partition.  Initially it should have a empty or some kind of initialized tree.  It should have an initialized tree because only then you can add or subtract from that  tree.  So creating that initialized tree is called formatting.  So that is the concept of formatting.  So now we know that the physical hard disk is divided into partitions.  There are other terms also like minute is for slice people use.  So as I mentioned the disk partition is accessible using the driver.  And the disk partition is accessible using the driver.  And there is no data initially.  When I said no data all I mean is there is some random arbitrary data there.  So the disk is like an array.  So an array if you remember I said is practically a useless concept because without the index  into the array you cannot use the array.  So like that when you have a disk you need some way of organizing data on the disk.  So it is like an uninitialized array.  The concept of formatting is.  So it is like an un-initialized array.  So it is like creating an initialized data structure on the partition so that you can  do operations like create a file, delete a file, create a folder, write a folder.  So that you can create a acyclic graph.  So now I have used the term acyclic graph not a tree because many file systems actually  allow you to create a acyclic graph not only a tree.  So there are different ways of doing this.  Just like if you remember when you studied array instance.  So you can create a tree.  So you can create a tree.  So you can create a tree.  So you can create a tree.  And when you studied the tree instance.  And when you studied trees.  And you studied linking of structures using pointers.  Then in the binary trees I'm sure you have studied in data structure many implementations  of a binary tree.  So you can implement a binary tree using node and pointer left and pointer right and linking  them together.  Or you can also implement a binary tree by using an array and indices into the array  and there is a implicit indexing.  there is the explicit indexing and there are various ways.  So, these different ways create different data structures.  So, the on-disk data structure is called a file system.  On-disk data structure is called obviously an on-disk file system.  And the different ways of doing this, these different formats,  these different implementations,  we give them names like EXT4, NTFS, VFAT, VXFS, etc.  So, there are many, many such file systems.  And basically these are different data structures, on-disk data structures.  So, when we say we are formatting a physical partition,  then we are creating that empty tree.  So, now I will again demonstrate this.  Have I ever demonstrated MKFS to you?  I think I have, isn't it?  Can you please confirm?  I have definitely done it in the initial class.  MKFS.  Any questions?  Okay, no problem.  Now, just to repeat, in this lecture,  I am introducing you to file system as an end user.  You have already been an end user because you have created and deleted and accessed files,  not only using mouse and click, but also using commands.  And not only that, also using program,  wherein your code you use open, read, write, close, and so on.  So, you have dealt with.  So, I am just introducing you some other remaining concepts.  So, what have we done so far?  We have seen a physical hard disk.  And that the physical hard disk appears to us through the disk controller and the disk driver as a sequence of blocks.  So, as a programmer, we deal with a sequence of blocks.  In XP6, the driver is id.c.  The actual function is id.read.  Then, we saw the concept of a partition.  That is the logical division of a disk.  So, it is divided into chunks.  And then each chunk appears as if it was a sequence of blocks on its own.  Remember, the same device driver will be used for partitions on a disk.  Because the device driver logic does not change by partitioning the disk.  Then, we saw the concept of mounting.  That you can mount a partition onto the existing file system tree in another partition.  Then, we saw the concept of mounting.  And then it appears as a single tree.  Then, I told you the concept of formatting.  Wherein you create an initialized empty file system on a given partition.  So that you can start using it.  Obviously, the partition needs to get mounted after that.  You cannot simply format and say, okay done.  It needs to be mounted after that.  Only then you can use it.  So, before I go ahead, I will once again do this.  I could do it.  I could do this demo.  Let me see if I can do this.  Okay.  So, I am now on my virtual box.  And I hope you are able to see my virtual box.  And I have a virtual machine here which is an Ubuntu.  It is an old Ubuntu but it does not matter.  And in this, I have extra hard disks as you can see here.  There are some extra hard disks.  And I am going to start this virtual machine.  I am doing this.  I am doing this because you will have to do this in the lab.  So, this virtual machine is starting.  Can somebody turn on the mic and tell that you are able to see my virtual machine?  Yes, sir.  We can see it.  All right.  So, the machine has started.  And I am going to start the terminal now.  Okay.  Just for some people who are too fond of GUI.  I will go to this activities menu.  And I will type disks.  And there is a GUI way of doing this.  But do not do the GUI way.  I am just showing you.  That this shows me all the hard disks on my computer.  There is a 107 GB hard disk.  There is a 11 GB hard disk.  And there is a 2 GB hard disk.  And there are other hard disks also.  So, it shows me like that.  In this, you will see that this 2.1 GB hard disk has a device file slash dev slash SDC1.  And it has two partitions in that.  This 11 GB hard disk is dev SDB.  And there is SDB1, SDB2, and SDB3.  These are the three partitions on the hard disk of 11 GB.  And so on.  Now, I am going to deal with this.  I have already done this.  But I am again going to show you this.  So, now if you see the file from command line, proc partitions.  It shows me all possible partitions that exist on my computer.  We will ignore the loop and the DM.  But let us look at this SDB, SDC.  So, they appear here also.  So, there are three SATA hard disks.  The S in SDB, SD, SDC stands for SATA.  So, these hard disks are of the type SATA.  Remember in XV6, the type of hard disk we deal with is IDE.  Not SATA.  But the only difference then becomes there is a different device driver.  For the kernel, it does not matter.  Once the device driver is available with the same function and same function call,  the kernel will work on any hard disk.  So, there are these hard disks and there are partitions already created.  But I am now going to ignore the partition.  I am going to treat as if my disk had no partition.  So, the command that you use for creating partitions on the raw disk is FDISK.  So, I am going to say, first of all let me run the command mount.  And let me see if...  SDB, SDC are used for any mount.  Okay, they are not.  So, these disks are not in use right now.  The command mount shows me all the possible...  All the current mounts.  So, I just did this to check if any mount exists.  So, no mount exists.  So, I am now going to overwrite those disks and use my own new partition.  So, FDISK password is required.  So, I started FDISK on the disk dev SDB.  I will say P to print.  So, it shows me now that there are three partitions SDB 1, 2, 3.  And their size is 2 GB, 4 GB, 4 GB.  I am going to delete all of them.  So, I will say D partition number 3.  Delete partition number 2.  Delete partition number 1.  So, all of them have been deleted.  And when I say P for print, I see no partition.  I will say W.  That is to say write to the disk.  So, because these operations were done in memory.  So, now when I say W, the partition table is altered.  Now, if I see the file proc partitions, you will see that there is no SDB 1, 2, 3 here.  Because the partitions have been deleted.  So, now the disk is raw.  This is a raw disk now.  It is here now the real demo begins.  There is a raw disk.  I begin with the raw disk.  Obviously, P will show no partitions on it.  To create a new partition, I will say D.  And new N.  Which type? Primary or extended?  I will say primary.  Partition number 1.  Now, it asks you in the sense of sectors and so on.  And you can actually use the GB notation.  So, for example, instead of sector, I will say here plus 2 GB.  And it is an intelligent software.  It is detecting that it is not a raw disk.  There was already a partition.  So, I will say do this.  I will say okay, do this.  So, the first partition is created.  I will again say new to create a new partition.  Again, I will say primary.  And I will just press enter so that it takes all the remaining space.  Now, if I say P, you will see the two partitions.  2 GB and 8 GB.  I have to say W to save it on the disk.  So, the partition data is saved onto the disk.  The partition data typically gets saved in the boot sector itself.  So, what we do here is to hence the partition data as being released.  And this partition data becomes the partition point onto the disk.  So, the partition information related to valid isn't going to get carried away on the C hills.  There are two GreenVal grandchildren 1 control  or maybe now.  This unknown cell number 51 created someνο known of code C.  And what we can us a change.  What we can do is we can drill down using a recent case of percentaciól without knowing  the testes on that With GTAM, it might be a littleяет some of the conditions we are  going to want.  format it so I will format it using the command MKFS make file system but to this I have to tell  which file system so I will say create the file system ext3 and I will create ext3 on sdb1  okay I forgot the minus t here minus t ext3 type ext3 and done it created a file system  on sdb1 some information is shown to you here we are going to revisit this later  on the sdb2 I am going to create a file system of the type ext2 and even that is done so now  remember these two partitions have an empty file system which is of different type ext2 and ext3  now I need to access these partitions and for that I need to mount them to mount them I need  a folder on  here  nice  i will mount them so i will create a folder tmp uh p1 and tmpp2 okay now i will mount  dev sd b1 on tmp p1 normally this command will expect you to give the file system type  but nowadays it has become intelligent and it detects the type but historically you you need  it to give the type a which file system i know that it has a xd3 so you deal with ext3 nowadays  it is more intelligent it detects the type so now mounted what does that mean under this now i see  the contents of that partition so remember this loss plus found is part of formatting when you  format the last plus found is also created and i have i have mounted now i can use it like i can  go to this folder  and i can i need a sudo here because right now the permissions are only for root user and i can  copy this and copy this onto this partition so it is copied to remove it the access to the partition  i can use u mount and the access to the partition is gone now if i say lst mpp1 it is empty folder  so that was about again first thing partitioning fdisk second thing creating a file system mkfs  third thing mounting the partition to make it accessible using mount that's how you  access this partitions format and mounting so let's come back to this  so far no questions in the chat any quick questions i'm waiting all right let's proceed  now there is a concept of a different type of file so which are the type of files we have seen so far  regular file direct file and the other type of file is the file that is used for the file system  directory as a file uh storage devices like hard disk as a file uh named uh five fifo as a file  now i'll introduce you to few more types now why are we learning this  okay we are learning this because these file types they have influence the the problem  itself like the problem no longer is creating a tree the problem is creating a cyclic graph then  is to make available hardware devices as if they were files and so on so that is  the extender problem we actually try to solve the concept of links it was  introduced because people felt the need to access one file using multiple names  that's like in real life also humans have multiple names like you have a  official name and you have a nickname and you have maybe some other name that  your other people because sometimes two individuals also call each other with  different font names and so on so one person with multiple names similarly in  file systems people often wanted to have one file just one file that is data is  stored once but it should have different names so the concept of links hard and  soft links okay once again I have already taught you this the command  LN and there was a lab task also around  doing this so I'm sure you are familiar with this but let's see that now the  concept of a hard link and this concept will be very heavily used in learning  file system and actual file system like ext2 so let me run LS here I have some  files here there is some file called app dot py I don't know what this file is  let us see this okay some some Python code let me run LS here and I will show you how to do this.  minus L on this now there are many things here in this output and you know  most of them that this is the name of the file this is the last modification  time of the file this is the size of the file these are permissions on the file  for owner group and others owner of the file group of the file the missing part  is this this is what we call the link account or the hard link count to this  file hardly that means this file exists with only one name and that name is the  app.py but remember the name itself is not independent of where it is located so  the app.py is actually slash home slash abhijit slash app.py so the file  slash home slash abhijit slash app.py is this file and it has one hard link to it  that means it exists with only one name now I am going to create another hard  link to this file that means another name for this file using Ln and I'll say  again relative path name app.py that is dot slash app.py and now I will say  that another name I want for it is x.py so now if I run app.py and  again x.py was a relative path name remember you see this where  everything is same for these two files except their names you will notice that  the link count has gone up to two I can create a link now  so this dot slash app.py in let us say the folder called dot slash tmp as you  can see there is a folder called tmp here and I'll give it a name new dot  p-y now we will see if I run LS minus L including this tmp new dot p-y then all  of the three files are same all details are same except the name the link count  has gone up to three so there is one file is one single file  and it has got three names now interestingly let's say if I open this  app dot p-y and I add it here let's say this line here and I close this file now  I modified app dot p-y but you will see that x dot p-y is also modified and same  is the case with new dot p-y it's this because it's the same file it is not  three files it's the same file that means the data  of the file is same alright you will see that the size has grown from one zero  six zero zero two one zero six one nine so the data of the files is same data of  the files is same but they are three different path names to the same data  because they are not only names they are different path names as you can see  you're not pivis in tmp folder not in the same folder so that's the concept of  a hard link so this rateavan is the able literature must perform the code in a  playing game of fs.jpg content like a舿осьky online nativeест.org  tmp like a dip another name2 prêts.NET that c trait3.net  ayat스를てerails and therefore the nén 갔 in a khat  and I give you a purport of a becoming aSwitchi file called here and I will  Ircheder a nice ссыл25� be in from that I will I give you a  link slide basically mean shows the same demo the other type of link is called  soft link and you create a soft link using LN but with the minuses so now I  am going to first of all run LS let me deal with the file ext2 FS dot H and I  will create a link to it called my dot H now if I run LS minus L on this and on  this you will notice that lot of things are different about them so for example  they don't have the same name obviously name is different size is different size  of ext2 FS dot H is 18837 but the size of my dot H is only 9 the type of this  file is a L so this is a new type of file altogether okay L means it's a soft  link in the case of hard links the file remain all of them were like regular  files  okay now let me tell you what is the soft link file a soft link file like my  dot H is one whose data so the file contains a data I need but that data is  not in your control the data of it is the path name of the actual file so if  you count the number of characters in ext2 underscore FS dot H they are  exactly nine so the data of my dot H is ext2 underscore FS dot H the beautiful  data is that if you do a syscall open on my dot H it will resolve into ext2  FS dot H so you will actually read ext2 dot ext2 FS dot H you will never read the  actual data of my dot H that is the file name you will actually end up reading  the ext2 FS dot H so let me do open syscall on my dot H and the way I do it  using VI so we I will do open syscall on my dot H you will see it shows me this  content which is the content of this file axt2fs.git so it's a indirect way of accessing that file  that's a soft link okay so the the the concept of a hard link and soft link can only be understood  with an indirection with something that sits in between the data of the file and the name of the  file so what really happens is this when you store a file on the hard disk the data of the file  is separated from sorry data of the file is separated from the name of the file  but in order to support the concept of the hard link the location of the data of the file is kept  in something called an inode and the inode is also separated from the data so what the  names that you create using hard links actually do is these names give you access to the inode  and the inode gives access to the data and there is only one inode per data so the data and inode  have a one-on-one mapping but the names point to the inode so even if i open this file okay it  gives me access to the same data through the same inode and i open this file it gives me access to  the same data through the same inode it is the inode which has the link count in this case too  the link count and the location of data is stored in the inode that is how the hard link concept  gets implemented through in direction okay through using something like a pointer not exactly a  pointer but in direction onto the hard disk but when you create a soft link the soft link doesn't  is a new file which has the name of the original file in it so that is the basic idea of hard link  and soft link now there are many uses of hard links and soft links which we will discuss  later but i introduce you this concept because this concept has influenced the disk data structures  the file systems a lot so i am done we have around five more minutes please feel free to ask your  questions and whatever demo i have shown you today you will have to do in the lab in the entire week  so i am going to share these slides the slides on moodle right now are the old slides  these are slightly new updated slides i am going to delete those slides and upload this  new slides we have two two three more minutes you can ask your questions  sir am i audible yes when we were discussing special devices like slash dev slash null and  everything uh so if we sorry repeat when we were discussing special devices like slash dev slash  null uh if we try to move a file so mv command move this file into that special uh device is it  able to deleting that file will that data get erased then so is your question this mv command  yeah move a file into slash see it's not going to work because see let's say you say sudo mv uh  user uh include uh okay i should not use this file let me create a file uh let me create a copy this  file uh it is a password to slash tmp your question is uh is it possible to delete that file  is can i move this file to devnet correct and would that wait after that first one first of all  please understand that when i say that slash data slash null uh is a sink that means the right  system call on it will keep working the right system call will keep working when i say dev  zero is a source of zeros that means the read system call on it will keep returning zeros but  But when you run the MV command, the system call that is used is unlinked.  To remove a file, the system call is unlinked.  It is not read or write.  And you cannot delete a file using open read write.  So to delete a file, you need to call this is called unlinked.  And unlinked in this case, what's the problem?  So first of all, this file exists.  It's not a non-existent file, isn't it?  So that will not work on any file, isn't it?  So for example, it won't work.  So the only way it can work is you overwrite the old file.  In this case, the type of these two files is separate.  The file has, so let's run this command.  In this case.  What happened?  Dev null now, you know, is a file that is, it is tempi password.  I have overwritten it.  And it is this file.  My system no longer has a dev null.  Remember, I use sudo for this.  That means I did it as the root user.  Now as a root user, I did this nasty drastic thing without actually knowing what it means.  Because I have done away with my dev null file.  So the, but, but the point I was trying to tell you is this.  The syscall that was involved, like when you do this and you can even stress this.  Okay.  The syscall in this case, I think it fails because the stress will prohibit the sudo from being effective.  But let me try to find here.  I think it did not reach that stage.  I mean, there are other ways of doing this.  We will do it later.  But I have overwritten that file and that is not the same as using the file for its purpose.  Did I make it clear?  So, but I didn't understand why it's not possible because a slash dash slash null.  So all the right syscalls will work, right?  See the MV command will delete the target file and create a new file.  That's what it will do.  Okay.  So that's what any cut to paste does.  Right.  Uh,  now you see there are multiple possibilities in the cut paste.  One, the target file name did not exist in that case.  It is simply deleting the old file that is deleting PTC password and creating a new file.  It is possible that the target file existed in that case.  It is deleting the old file, deleting the new file and copying the old file as the new file.  So those are the multiplicities involved in the cut paste.  That's why.  See, when you do it using GUI, you often get this thing.  You are going to overwrite this file.  Do you want to overwrite?  Yes or no?  That's what will happen using GUI when the target file exists, because it will do some additional checks in the command MV.  It doesn't do that.  So now I have done really a nasty thing.  And my, in fact, I moved my ETC password.  No TMP password.  So I'm safe.  I did not move my ETC password.  If I move my ETC password, I'm really in deep trouble.  I only moved.  TMP password.  But my DevNull is gone and I'll have to create the DevNull now using some special command like mkNode.  This is called mkNode.  For that, I need some information which I don't have right now.  I need the major number, minor number and such thing which I don't remember for that file.  One good way is to reboot my system and it will work because the DevNull will get created again.  I'm going to reboot my system because I need my system anyway.  Did I answer your question or did I confuse you more?  A bit of both, sir.  So in this case, the DevNull will be overwritten.  And what about the TMP?  Right, sir.  So when you ran that command, slash dev slash null, that file will be overwritten and the file that slash TMP file that will, that's basically gone.  It's not there anymore.  Yeah.  So basically now, because you have studied more than a normal user, you have studied system calls now.  Think of it like this.  When I say DevNull, Dev0 are special files, in what sense are they special?  That's the question.  So they're special in the sense that the read and write system calls on them will have a different behavior.  In that sense, they are different.  Correct.  Okay, sir.  Got it.  Thank you.  So can you hear me?  Yeah.  So let me just see now once again, that my system has rebooted.  Yeah.  So this one and five is what I didn't remember.  Otherwise, I could have recreated that file anyway.  Yes, go ahead.  Sir, you showed us the command for sudo mount a remote file system.  Louder.  Louder.  Louder.  You showed us the command for sudo mount a remote file system and then my folder, right?  Okay, I can show you for that.  I'll show you for that.  See, this is the computer.  It's some computer on which I want to access a remote file system.  Now for that, I need another computer now, a remote computer and access to a remote computer, which is saying I'm going to share the folder.  Isn't it?  Otherwise, how do I show it?  So this is my, this is, let us say my computer.  Now I'll have to have a remote computer which is willing to share the folder first.  So I'll go to a remote computer and  uh,  let us say,  that remote computer is my laptop and I need to share a folder.  So which folder?  So let us say there is a folder called TMPD and in that TMPD I should have some data, right?  So I will share, I'll copy my favorite files into TMPD.  Now this computer needs to be shared.  So this is the computer sharing a folder.  So it needs to run a server.  And the other computer needs to run a client of NFS.  So let me first of all see if I have, okay.  It is not running the NFS server.  So I will have to install NFS if I'm not mistaking NFS kernel server.  Okay.  So I'm installing the NFS kernel server because this is the, this is the computer sharing a folder.  So it has to act as a server.  So I'm installing that.  I hope I do it properly.  I'm doing it after a lot of time.  Um, now I need to tell it that you have to export the file system.  So the file that NFS server looks at is ETC exports.  Now I have forgotten the syntax that I use here.  So, but let me, the folder name was D right?  No.  What was the folder name?  D folder name.  So TMPD.  And, uh, if I am right, a star means it is accessible to every other computer.  And, uh, these are some options which we can write.  No forget.  Okay.  Um, there's some options that you have to specify.  So star means any computer can, any, anyone in the world can mount it if they have access to my computer.  Now I specified that this is what I want to share, but to enable the share, I have to run.  So just a bit of exposure.  Yeah.  So I made a mistake unknown keyword, most of the check was extra.  It's one extra.  So now, uh, the file system is getting exported and if I run this export FS, it shows.  That TMPD is shareable back.  All right.  So this is on this computer, which is sharing the folder using the NFS server.  Now for the other one to use it.  I need to have an IP address.  So.  Oh.  This is what is my IP address.  I'll say my IP address is.  Okay.  Now see I'm skipping a detail here.  Because right now I'm.  The other computer is a virtual machine.  It has.  Own IP address of.  10 0 2 15.  So as I know with some experience.  Yeah.  10 0 2 2.  Is the address of my host.  Which is accessible.  So I could ping it.  So now see.  I'm going to create a folder here.  NFS mount.  And I'm going to say.  Pseudo mount 10 dot.  0 dot 2 dot 2 colon.  TMPD on TMP.  NFS mount.  My own local password.  Because I said pseudo.  Mount 10 0 2 2.  Alright.  Okay.  Now the thing is here.  I need to install.  NFS.  Kernel.  NFS common.  Because I need a client here.  The client software is missing.  So that's why that mount could not.  Mount me.  Naval up.  You said NFS.  But I don't know the NFS.  The particular.  So I have to install the NFS client here.  And now that we then this command.  All right.  So I actually see.  Try to work.  But it says access is denied by the server while mounting this.  The reason for that is most likely I have a firewall enabled here.  And.  Let me allow.  NFS.  In my firewall.  My firewall is UFW.  So I allowed NFS now.  Now let me try mounting again.  It says again denied.  So I need to check.  So that is something missing now.  I have to some some access.  I have to allow.  0 2 2.  I have to allow it.  Some port I have to add additionally for the firewall.  I'll have to search for that.  I have to go to the folder.  Get mounted remotely.  Sorry.  But even the remote isn't going to be available on the remote server.  Or is it on the path only be visible on this computer.  Yeah.  It will become visible in this part.  Like in inside this the files will become visible.  Readable writeable everything.  But I can show you an existing thing that I've already done.  Like let me go to the Moodle server.  And let me go to the Fox server.  Okay.  This is the SSH alias I am running.  Not anything different.  So on the Moodle server.  I guess.  So there is a file called etcfs tab in which I am saying that you have to every time you reboot.  You have to mount from this IP this folder onto this folder.  So I just say sudo mount slash MNT backup Moodle server password.  So I'm not running the full command.  I'm just saying.  I'm just running because it is there in the etcfs tab.  Yes.  And now when I do this this content which I see on the Moodle server are the same as on this.  For server.  You will see this folder contains and this they are same.  In fact I go to this backup Moodle and I create a file.  I should say sudo.  So I created a file called x here.  And.  I can see that x here.  So this is the actual example of mount.  Now in this case I need to.  Okay.  I can do that now.  Because I can see the settings here.  4432049111.  There is a port called 111 which I should have allowed.  So sudo ufw allow 111.  So I'm allowing access to port number 111 network port 111.  On the server.  Now let me try mounting.  Oops.  Again I am maybe missing.  There is no firewall here.  10.0.2.2 tmpd tmpnfs mount sudo export.  This is getting exported.  No issues with that.  4432049.  That seems correct.  I'll have to find out.  Okay.  So some step I am missing.  As I said I am doing it after a long time.  So I may be missing a step.  But this is roughly how you do it.  I think we have exceeded time.  Okay.  So you don't have another class.  I'll do this again for you separately in the lab.  If you want to see how NFS mount works.  Okay sir.  Yes.  Yeah.  But I think I did almost everything except some firewall setting.  Okay.  In fact, I think I can show you this.  If I go to the FOSS server, this is painful typing a difficult password every time and  not getting it right.  So see for the time being, I'm going to say this folder backup model with a start.  That means I'm exporting it to the world.  Let me enable it.  Let me enable it.  Now this FOSS server, I hope it works this time.  sudo mount 172.16.  Okay.  Let me see if I can ping it.  Yeah, this server is accessible.  16175.  What was the name of the folder?  I forgot it again.  Slash backup model.  Slash backup model.  Now I'll mount it into this.  All right.  Should work very quickly.  But it's taking time.  It did not fail.  It's just taking time.  I don't think it's going to work because this doesn't take time.  Most likely some packets are getting dropped in the network because in the whole world,  there are a lot of firewalls.  So maybe they're rejecting some packets and somebody trying is happening.  So otherwise it should have worked in no time.  But I'll prepare a demo for you.  You see it is very easy to do it in the lab in two machines which are besides each other  because you're in a LAN in the lab.  So it's very easy to do in the LAN.  So we'll do it in the LAN.  As of now, let's stop.  You go for your next class.  I did a control test.  I'll give you a little bit of a demo.  So let's see what happens.  So this is the demo.  So now we're going to do a demo.  So let's see what happens.  So this is the demo.  So this is the demo.  So this is the demo.  So this is the demo.  So here's the demo.  Let's do the demo.  So it'll be the demo for you.  So you're in a lab.  So it's very easy to do in the in the land.  So we'll do it in the land.  As of now, let's stop you go for your next class.  I did a control c.  I'll do the NFL demo for you separately.  Let's stop.